docs: Add cookbook recipe for custom occ endpoints (#7121)
vuestorefront/vue-storefront: docs/content/cookbook/handling-custom-occ-endpoint.md

# Handling custom OCC endpoints

> It is a common task to add support for a custom SAP OCC API endpoint. This guide will show you how can do it using Alokai.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a common task to add support for additional SAP OCC API endpoints not covered by the Alokai integration. This guide will show you how can do it using Alokai.
```

Does this make sense? If not, ignore. But I just think clarifying what "custom" means in context of an Alokai application could be useful

Author: Custom means non-standard endpoint developed as customization on the back end side.

## Prerequisites

> Before we start make sure that you are familiar with Adding an Endpoint guide. With that guide, you would be able to

Reviewer: I think "Adding an Endpoint" is missing a link

communicate with OCC API but it would require manual retrieval of context parameters (baseSiteId, userId, language,
and currency) and preparation of authorization headers. Read on to see how to streamline that process.

> ## Communicating with OCC API effectively

Reviewer: IMO, I think this section could use more background info on...

1. The overall process of using `client.get` like what is the client, is there an advantage to doing that over just a `fetch`, etc.
2. Where does this file go? I know you mentioned the Adding an API Endpoint, but having that information here too would be helpful.

Author: Good points! However, I won't be able to work on them before the workshops. I'll work on that next week.

  TokenModes,
  createRequestOptions,
  getUserIdFromRequest,
} from "@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api";
import { BaseProps, BaseUserId } from "@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-types";

export interface CustomEndpointProps extends BaseProps, BaseUserId {
  customField: any;
}

export interface CustomResponse {
  whatever: any;
}

const callCustomEndpoint = async (
  context: SapccIntegrationContext,
  props: CustomEndpointProps
): Promise<CustomResponse> => {
  const { config, req, client } = context;

  const userId = getUserIdFromRequest({ req, props } as any); // retrieves userID from props or cookies

  const res = await client.get(
    `/${config.api.baseSiteId}/users/${userId}/customEndpoint/${props.customField}`,
    createRequestOptions({
      // adds authorization headers and language & currency parameters
      context,
      props,
      tokenMode: TokenModes.CUSTOMERORAPPLICATION,
    })
  );

  return res.data;
};
```

Read more about the helper methods:

- [getUserIdFromRequest](https://docs.alokai.com/integrations/sapcc/api/sapcc-api/getUserIdFromRequest)
- [createRequestOptions](https://docs.alokai.com/integrations/sapcc/api/sapcc-api/createRequestOptions)

## Real life example

> Here's an example implementation of the product interest feature. This feature is available in OCC API but not in middleware and sdk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example implementation of the product interest feature. This feature is available in OCC API, but not in the middleware and SDK integration.
```

Let's add support for it.

> First, you need to add a new api method in the middleware. (For the sake of simplicity we show how to do it in one file, but for the sake of clean code you should split it into a couple of files.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to add a new API method in the middleware. (For simplicity, this guide shows how to do it in one file, but we recommend splitting it into multiple files to maintain cleaner code.)
```

  interestType?: string;
  dateAdded?: string;
  expirationDate?: string;
}
export interface ProductInterestRelation {
  product?: Product;
  productInterestEntry?: Array<ProductInterestEntry>;
}
export interface UserInterestsResponse {
  results: Array<ProductInterestRelation>;
}

const getProductInterests = async (
  context: SapccIntegrationContext,
  props: GetProductInterestsProps
): Promise<UserInterestsResponse> => {
  const { config, req, client } = context;

  const userId = getUserIdFromRequest({ req, props } as any);

  const requestOptions = createRequestOptions({
    context,
    props,
    tokenMode: TokenModes.CUSTOMERORAPPLICATION,
  });

  const res = await client.get(
    `/${config.api.baseSiteId}/users/${userId}/productinterests`,
    {
      ...requestOptions,
      params: {
        ...requestOptions.params,
        productCode: props.productCode,
      },
    }
  );

  return res.data;
};

const apiMethods = methods<typeof normalizers>();
const unifiedApiExtension = createUnifiedExtension<Context, Config>()({
  normalizers,
  apiMethods: {
    ...apiMethods,
    getProductInterests,
  },
  config: {
    /* ... */
  },
});
```

> Then you need to add a custom hook to retrieve the product interests on the front end:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, in your frontend application, you need to add a custom hook to retrieve the product interests on the front end.
```

  productCode?: string;
}
export interface ProductInterestEntry {
  interestType?: string;
  dateAdded?: string;
  expirationDate?: string;
}
export interface ProductInterestRelation {
  product?: Product;
  productInterestEntry?: Array<ProductInterestEntry>;
}
export interface UserInterestsResponse {
  results: Array<ProductInterestRelation>;
}

const getProductInterests = async (
  context: SapccIntegrationContext,
  props: GetProductInterestsProps
): Promise<UserInterestsResponse> => {
  const { config, req, client } = context;

  const userId = getUserIdFromRequest({ req, props } as any);

  const requestOptions = createRequestOptions({
    context,
    props,
    tokenMode: TokenModes.CUSTOMERORAPPLICATION,
  });

  const res = await client.get(
    `/${config.api.baseSiteId}/users/${userId}/productinterests`,
    {
      ...requestOptions,
      params: {
        ...requestOptions.params,
        productCode: props.productCode,
      },
    }
  );

  return res.data;
};

const apiMethods = methods<typeof normalizers>();
const unifiedApiExtension = createUnifiedExtension<Context, Config>()({
  normalizers,
  apiMethods: {
    ...apiMethods,

>     getProductInterests,

Reviewer 2: @mateuszo please add `getProductInterests` as a separate extension

https://github.com/vuestorefront/unified-storefronts/blob/next/1.0.0-docs/docs/content/2.integration-%26-setup/0.creating-new-api-methods.md#adding-new-api-methods

Author: I did it this way the first time but it messed up the typing a little bit. I will do it your way in the next iteration because I need more time to figure out how to type it correctly.
